[WHOOSH]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
[HEART BEATING]
>>SUE MORTER: Welcome
to "Healing Matrix"
Part 2 with Dr. Ibrahim
Karim and Doreya Karim
from BioGeometry.
Previously, on Part 1, we
learned how BioGeometry forms
are environment's subtle
energy to harmonize and to heal
the body.
All body types, all
states of health
can benefit from these
harmonious environments
informed by
BioGeometry technology.
Now, we're going
to take what we've
learned about the
fundamentals of BioGeometry
and see how it is
applied in extreme cases
of chronic disease
caused by EMF radiation.
Hemberg was a peaceful,
rural, Swiss town
until a telecommunications
company installed an antenna
in a nearby church tower.
This wreaked havoc
upon the community.
Plants, animals, and people
developed mysterious health
problems.
That's when Dr. Karim
came to the rescue.
This phenomenon is
known as electro-smog.
Take a look.
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>>SUE: Fascinating story.
Can you tell us,
in your own words,
what happened in Hemberg,
Switzerland with this tower?
>>IBRAHIM KARIM: Well, this was
the first public, large project
that I did.
I was very reluctant to do
it because, for many years,
I've been doing sort of projects
with different governments that
were always high
security projects.
So I just had to
face my own results,
but I didn't have
to face the public.
And then, in Switzerland,
they had this huge problem
where the residents
of Hemberg wanted
to dynamite the mobile towers.
So the government asked
me to go and help.
Now, their idea was
you should change
the effect without touching
the cause, you see?
Now, logic says that if
something is harming you,
you take away the cause.
And I told them,
this is the logic.
And they said, why do
you think we bring you.
[LAUGHING]
We bring you because--
>>SUE: You're going
to take away the--
>>IBRAHIM KARIM: Yeah,
because you can do it.
>>DOREYA KARIM: You're
going to do the logical.
>>IBRAHIM KARIM: So they
asked me, how will you do it?
I said, don't ask me
because it's not logical.
So let me do it.
If I succeed, ask me later.
If I don't, tell me to go
back to Egypt, you know?
[LAUGHING]
And so I went there.
When I went to Hemberg, I was
really touched by the people
there.
There was a lady who
was shouting and crying
because she had three
children, 8, 10, and 12.
And each one of the children
had five epileptic fits a day.
So she had to deal with 15 fits.
So she was shouting
at the government,
take off those towers or I'll
go myself and dynamite them
and things like that.
The cows were not fertile.
And so many symptoms
there were happening.
And so I told them, we
will find a solution here.
What made me get
closer to those people
is that I showed
them in their barns
where they had
their animals, they
knew I could identify
Earth's radiation.
Because all the farmers
and all those people
understand energy through
Earth's radiation.
So when I showed
them I could do it,
now, we were on speaking terms.
>>SUE: Yes.
>>IBRAHIM KARIM: Oh,
he speaks our language.
>>SUE: Now, they're listening.
>>IBRAHIM KARIM:
And I said, well,
if you know where the
problems are, then
you have your own solution.
They said, no, we
know how to find them.
But we can't solve the problem.
I said, OK, I'll
solve it for you.
I started putting shapes
together and all that.
And all of a sudden,
the whole community
was there, fascinated
with my work, helping me.
Everyone was taking
me into his home,
showing me every
problem in his home.
And we corrected them.
And a sort of euphoria happened.
Everybody-- everything
changed there.
So we installed our shapes.
Within a day or two, they came
back very happy in the morning,
saying, Ibrahim, fantastic
the bats are back.
>>SUE: Wow.
>>IBRAHIM KARIM:
I don't know what
was so fantastic about that.
But they said, no, no, the
bats means that the ecology,
that the energy is OK.
>>SUE: Yes.
>>IBRAHIM KARIM: The
wild animals came back.
Migrating birds came back.
>>SUE: The donkey would
have sat down there.
>>IBRAHIM KARIM: The donkey
would've sat down there.
>>DOREYA KARIM: The
donkey would've sat down.
>>IBRAHIM KARIM: 60%
of health symptoms,
according to a survey done
by the parliament doctors,
were reduced.
And so the mayor that we saw
in the film, he was speaking,
he told the people,
look, I am not a doctor.
I'm very happy that you're
all healthy and all that.
I want to look at it from
a different point of view.
And he said, I thank
you, Dr. Karim,
because you brought peace into
my community and the church
back into our hearts.
Now, how did this happen?
When they went, in the survey,
they would ask somebody, OK,
what are your problems
so and so on so?
And then, the person would
say, I have no taste for life.
Or I can't stand my wife.
Or-- yeah or
something like that.
Whatever.
>>SUE: Yeah.
>>IBRAHIM KARIM: I
have no will to work.
And the people
writing the questions,
they said, everybody's
saying the same thing
but we don't want to
handle such things.
I said, no, no, write
it and we'll see.
>>DOREYA KARIM: Like not
handle psychological issues.
>>IBRAHIM KARIM:
Yeah, psychological.
>>SUE: Yes, yes.
>>IBRAHIM KARIM: Let's stay to
the practical, medical things.
When we went there a
week later, and everybody
said the same thing.
No, now, I'm very
happy with my life.
The taste of life is back.
>>SUE: My wife got nicer.
[LAUGHING]
>>IBRAHIM KARIM: No, one
of them said, you know,
he was holding his wife
like that, and he was--
he's saying, now, we're
back like the old days.
We don't have a problem anymore.
We were nearing divorce.
And she is very funny.
She looked at him.
And said, you see, it was
the electricity and not me.
>>SUE: Well, it's never me.
I'll allow it.
>>IBRAHIM KARIM: And
things like that.
And imagine that the
children with epilepsy,
in one day, when we
install the things, not
one single epileptic seizure,
not only in those children,
but in the whole
region, happened.
Epilepsy was eradicated
completely in the whole region.
>>SUE: Eradicated.
>>IBRAHIM KARIM: Completely.
>>SUE: Because of energy.
>>IBRAHIM KARIM: But
when they went out,
it's again-- because
there was a town nearby
that had electronic games
and things like that.
So when those
children went there,
they got their fits there.
So what I did was I gave
them things to wear.
Like a ring, or a medallion,
or a bracelet, or something
to wear.
And they were happy
to wear those things.
And when they went
there, then they were OK.
And there was a little episode
of this eight-year-old child
who had five fits a day.
I went to his house
with his mother.
And I was wearing a ring, a
BioGeometry designed ring.
And he looked at my
hand and said, I--
I am OK.
My head is free now.
And I want this.
He wanted to take my ring.
And she told him,
it's our guest.
Please--
>>SUE: Don't take his jewelry.
>>IBRAHIM KARIM: No, no.
So I said, OK.
Is your head OK?
He said, yes.
So I covered this.
Is it OK?
No, now my head--
I have this tension again.
Is it OK?
Yes, is-- again.
So I told him, OK.
The next day, I brought
a small bracelet for him.
And he wore it and
his head was cleared.
That's how we made bracelets
for all the epileptic children
there so that they
can go out and they
wouldn't have a problem.
But Hemberg changed the
whole outlook of everybody
in Switzerland.
So the director of Swisscom,
they asked him on TV,
do you now acknowledge that
there is something called
electro hypersensibility?
That was years before
the WTO acknowledged it.
And he said, yes, we
now acknowledge it.
And he said, so
you know it exists?
He said, yes, we know it exists.
And that's why we
brought you the solution.
Once they had the solution,
then they acknowledged.
And I think Hemberg was like the
first project done in public.
It was all over the media
everywhere in Switzerland.
And some people, for example,
a very prominent psychologist
in a conference came
out and said, oh, you
shouldn't believe
this Egyptian that he
has a new science or something.
Because there exists
in history people who
have tremendous power.
So he's Egyptian.
He might have some temporal
sciences or have some things.
And he can go into a region
and then everybody is healed.
But this is a collective
placebo effect.
So it's not science.
The science is only covering.
You know, he was trying to be--
I mean, he didn't like
what was happening.
So one lady stood
up from Hemberg.
And she said, sir, our
cows don't speak Arabic.
That answers that.
>>SUE: That's all I
have to say about that.
>>IBRAHIM KARIM: Yeah,
cows don't speak Arabic.
>>DOREYA KARIM: We actually
did, like, a TEDx talk in Egypt
called "Why is The Cow Smiling."
And he went back
explaining how if it
wasn't for the cows, and
the animals, that all of it
would have just been put
aside as some kind of--
>>SUE: Psychosomatic--
>>DOREYA KARIM: Yeah.
>>SUE: Psychosomatic issue.
>>IBRAHIM KARIM: So I
told them in my speech,
instead of me speaking,
the cow in Switzerland
asked me to speak on her
behalf because she feels,
if it wasn't for her, all my
science it would be placebo.
So anyhow, I speak on
her behalf, you know.
>>SUE: Yes.
Let's take a look at what some
of the other people of Hemberg
have been saying as well.
>>IBRAHIM KARIM: Yes.
>>SUE: Thank you.
>>ROSEMARIE KELLER:
[SPEAKING GERMAN]
>>SUE: The Hemberg
project was so successful
that the Swiss
government and Swisscom
offered another
commission to Dr. Karim.
Let's take a look at
the town of Hirschberg.
>> [SPEAKING GERMAN]
>>SUE: Hirschberg, Switzerland
offered you a whole country
solution.
You offered them a solution
to a country-wide issue.
Tell us about that experience.
>>IBRAHIM KARIM:
Well, Hirschberg
was actually a pilot project
for a total country solution
because in Hemberg
we installed those
shapes in the mobile towers.
Now, they were not happy to
go with a complete country
solution with the shapes
pointing at the mobile towers
because they thought
it might be understood
as correcting the harm
done by the mobile towers.
So they told me, let's
take a second place
to make a pilot project where
you give a solution where you
don't use the mobile towers.
So I got the geometric shapes,
like these, a bit bigger,
double in size.
I put them in plastic
tubes filled with water,
closed them, and came
at the central spot.
It's a valley that has
about 10 kilometers radius.
So it's a 20 kilometer
valley like that
with mountains at the end.
And there's a small
hill in the middle.
So I went to the
central place and got
12 of those different
shapes, each one targeting
a different thing.
One electro-smog, one
underground water,
one Earth's radiation.
So each one dealt
with one thing.
And I buried the 12 tubes in
the central area in Hirschberg.
The project was so successful,
even better than the first one.
And so that was
the pilot project.
So I was offered a complete--
a whole country contract
to do all of Switzerland.
At that time, by the time I
was offered that contract,
I had immigrated--
I was living in
Switzerland, first.
I immigrated to Canada,
where the Doreya
went to study at university.
She didn't want to go
into a German university.
She told me that language
too difficult for me.
Take me somewhere
because she was
in an American school in Egypt.
So we all went, the whole
family immigrated to Canada.
And there were some political
problems and things like that
with--
I mean, taxes and things
that related to the contract
before I even signed it.
So I didn't want headaches
and things like that.
When I found things coming
to a clash with authorities
about taxes, money, tax
evasion, things like that.
So I said no, better just--
>>SUE: No, thank you.
>>IBRAHIM KARIM: No, thank you.
And I refused it.
And it came out in
the official document
that came out that I had to
refuse the contract because
of personal reasons
because I immigrated.
And I didn't do it then, yeah.
It is still pending, but yeah.
>>SUE: So with all of this
and the obvious relationship
between the telecommunications
antennas, the issues,
the towers, and the
effect on this community,
what does this say
about our future
with the increased
telecommunication antenna
need and the electric power
and our advancements of driving
electric cars and these
attempts that we're
making in one
direction, what does
it say in the whole picture?
>>IBRAHIM KARIM: You see--
>>DOREYA KARIM: I think--
>>IBRAHIM KARIM: OK.
You go ahead.
>>DOREYA KARIM: No, like,
I'm sorry to cut you off.
I was just going to add
that part of BioGeometry
is when we look at how
technology comes about,
so let's say we look
at a car, right.
If the car had been studied
against human health,
we would have--
would we have a car that is
polluting the environment as
much as it's polluting today?
Would you have like how you
have the air pollution in China
because of all of the traffic?
We have the same
problem in Egypt.
If they had studied it and
taken into account human health,
we're going to--
from a BioGeometry perspective,
we would say not just human
health, but human health in a
multi-dimensional human subtle
energy perspective--
>>SUE: Yes.
>>DOREYA KARIM: Would you
still have cars today?
Yes.
Would you have cars
today that are affecting
the environment and
our lungs the way
that they're affecting us today?
And the answer is no.
>>SUE: No.
>>DOREYA KARIM: So it actually,
from a BioGeometry perspective,
we look at the same thing
with electromagnetic radiation
and cell phone technology.
Do you need to completely
stop electromagnetic radiation
and cell phone technology?
He already touched upon the
fact that it's impossible.
>>SUE: Yeah.
>>DOREYA KARIM: Reduction
isn't a solution.
But can you take the
human being into account?
And the answer is you
have to because you--
and, also, you brought
up electric cars.
And he always talks
about electric cars.
Great.
So we've moved
away from pollution
to a car that, OK, is
better for the environment,
but, because of
the electro-smog,
needs a solution in
order for it to not
be harmful to your health
and your energy system.
>>SUE: Your vital force.
>>DOREYA KARIM: I know you
have so much to add here.
>>IBRAHIM KARIM: No,
I mean, and imagine
sitting in electric cars.
I've measured cars
while charging,
while recharging them,
and the disturbing field
went about four meters
away from the car,
the human body
detects it already
before coming into the cars.
Now, when you come near the
car, it starts getting worse.
Inside the car, every organ
of your body starts to have--
to be under stress.
>>SUE: Wow.
>>IBRAHIM KARIM: And
so you are putting
a person inside a highly
charged electromagnetic cocoon
like that.
And what will happen
is it, with time,
it will affect not
only health, it
will affect concentration
of the drivers.
Accidents will increase or
fatigue and things like this.
So we have started developing
BioGeometry solutions
to transform it so that the
electric car becomes actually
a harmonizing element, a healing
aspect in the electric car.
So when you sit in
the electric car,
you are actually getting
a healing session.
So you stay alert while
driving, but at the same time,
very relaxed.
And you drive with no
fatigue and things like that.
So it is very, very
dangerous to go
with the roadway of
electricity and electric cars,
or in smart cities
where electricity
or electromagnetic
radiation is everywhere.
You cannot go into this form
of pollution without having
a solution for it.
Because remember,
it took us, now,
100 years until we
start discovering
that fossil fuels and oil
and gases are harmful to us.
We don't have another 100 years
with electromagnetic radiation.
>>SUE: Yeah.
>>IBRAHIM KARIM: We will end
civilization much before that.
>>DOREYA KARIM: And just to--
>>IBRAHIM KARIM: So let's wake
up now and find the solution.
>>DOREYA KARIM: Just to add
as well, because we do focus
on modern technology,
but going back again,
to understand BioGeometry
is a design language.
And I doubt we have
time to get into this.
But also, for example, it's
not just modern technology.
Modern technology
we need to address.
But if you even look
at something as simple
as a classroom shape.
So one thing that we
found in Bio Geometry
is we looked at is a rectangle
or a square classroom
shape beneficial or
not to a student?
And we actually
found that it is not
beneficial from a subtle energy
perspective to a child who's
trying to learn.
But more importantly,
we actually
found that by
changing that shape
from a square or a rectangle
to more of an octagonal shape,
you're actually helping relieve
stress off of the student.
And we found that this--
we worked with the Autistic
Society in Cairo to
help with children
with some of these
symptoms of autism
just by changing
the classroom shape.
So that's just another example
of even modern technology,
such as--
we talk about electromagnetic
radiation, but even
your built structures.
Anything that has
a shape to it, you
have to study the effect
on the subtle energy system
and everything
has a shape to it.
>>SUE: And everything
has a shape.
>>DOREYA KARIM: Yeah.
>>SUE: And you know, what I
know everyone wants to see
is we have some tools
here, we have some things.
We want to see
what's going on here.
Can you share with us how
you implement BioGeometry
in this world,
making it tangible,
measurable with cause and effect
and ability to have an effect,
creative force in action.
>>IBRAHIM KARIM:
Well, first, you
should know that subtle
energy is energy that moves.
When you move something,
it's like ripples.
Now, ripples are kind of
compression waves like that,
very similar to sound waves.
But there are so
many other levels.
So we can call super sound
type, whatever, inaudible sound.
So it's this type of energy.
Now, I ask myself,
how do I interact
with this subtle energy?
I have something in my
architecture practice
in which I interact with
it, not with subtle energy
on those high levels, but
to subtle energy on lower
levels that is at resonance
with those levels.
And that's, for example,
in acoustics and sound.
I design theaters,
so I use shape
to somehow work
with subtle energy.
So I can change the quality
of sound using shape.
>>SUE: Sure.
>>IBRAHIM KARIM:
In aerodynamics, I
shape my cars and all that to
interact with the subtle energy
movement of the air.
>>SUE: Yeah.
>>IBRAHIM KARIM: So shapes
are the tools of interacting
with subtle energy.
Antennas and wavelengths
are the tools
to interact with
electromagnetic energy.
But this energy, use shapes.
Now, what if we want to
program that background
energy because subtle energy
is 99% of the background energy
that you have.
It's like a carpet weave
in the background that
has all the levels,
from vitality, emotion,
and mental, all of
those, are out there.
This is the carpet
weave in the background.
>>SUE: It's just there.
You don't notice it.
>>IBRAHIM KARIM: It's there.
>>SUE: It's just
holding the space.
>>IBRAHIM KARIM: So you
have to have shapes.
And a design language
means you have
to have shapes that
you can program
to have this effect on the
emotional level, that effect
on the mental
level, that effect--
so it's a language
of programming shapes
and seeing what shapes
affect what level.
So once you know what
shapes affect that level,
you have the tools in your
hands of creating shapes
where you can balance
the emotional level
in the environment.
Now, we are an
open energy system,
so me and the
environment are one.
If air is polluted, I breathe
it, I'm sick, or vise versa.
So now, in the environment,
I have this interaction.
With any level in
the environment,
if I can balance the
emotion level automatically
balance at the emotional
level of all living systems
living in it.
Because we are part
of that environment.
So we take our shapes,
we program the shapes.
And this is an
example of shapes,
how we can program some
shapes like that, in order
to make them emit energy.
Now, what kind of
energy is emitted?
These interact with the
subtle energy out there.
And then, take it and it
introduces balance and harmony
into them.
That means it's introducing the
qualities of sacred power spots
and radiates it back
into the environment.
So BioGeometry is recreating
the energy quality
of a sacred power spot
in the subtle energy
of the environment
on all levels.
>>SUE: So you're emitting
this standing wave.
>>IBRAHIM KARIM: Yeah.
>>SUE: You're emitting
this harmonic presence--
>>IBRAHIM KARIM: Yes.
>>SUE: --into a
disharmony of some sort.
>>IBRAHIM KARIM: Yes.
>>SUE: And
rearranging it because
of what you're projecting.
>>IBRAHIM KARIM: You should look
at the energy of a sacred power
spot, not as a
quality in itself,
but as the centering quality
that takes all of the qualities
and balances them.
So that's why you call
the centering quality.
>>SUE: So what types
of environmental issues
are impacted by the use here?
You know, if you're--
>>IBRAHIM KARIM: Everything can.
>>SUE: So give us a few.
List them off.
>>DOREYA KARIM: Well, like we
talked about, geopathic stress.
>>SUE: Yes.
>>DOREYA KARIM: You know,
we talked a little bit
about electromagnetic
radiation, modern technology.
>>SUE: Yes.
>>DOREYA KARIM: One thing we
didn't mention is that maybe--
or maybe we did.
But that all of these
things are actually
in a type of resonance.
They amplify each other.
So you have to look at the
environment as a whole.
>>SUE: Yeah.
>>DOREYA KARIM: But
I also think that one
of the most powerful
things about BioGeometry
is there is a difference between
having a space where you've
remediated certain problems
versus having a centered space.
So the wonderful thing
about BioGeometry
is we actually go in
with a positive approach
where if you can recreate the
energy of a sacred power spot,
then you will have
a centered space.
You can have a space
where, like we said,
you can move your bed
off geopathic stress.
It doesn't mean you
have a centered space.
>>SUE: Yes.
>>DOREYA KARIM: So we
focus on getting that space
to actually balance
your body, to get
that space to work not
only, like we said,
with that centering
system and work
on that multidimensional
emotional mental level,
but you will have a space
that will evolve with you
as the environment evolves.
In the sense of let's
say I moved your bed off
of a geopathic stress line.
And then, somebody actually
came and put like a router right
on that line.
That router could actually
amplify the stress
from that line.
And then, the bed, even
though we moved it off,
it still could be affected.
>>SUE: Yeah.
>>DOREYA KARIM: But if
you have a centered space,
if you can manage to recreate
the energy of the sacred power
spot in your home, then
it will move with you.
It will work on that
environmental exchange level.
>>SUE: And then, the same
thing with the body, as well.
>>IBRAHIM KARIM: Yes.
>>SUE: And you were
demonstrating some things
with the mannequin that I would
love for our viewers to see.
>>IBRAHIM KARIM: OK, but--
OK.
Before I do that, I just
want to explain one thing.
Geometrical shapes that effect
subtle energy are not new.
There are many,
many institutions
around the world
who practice that.
>>SUE: Yeah.
>>IBRAHIM KARIM: So OK, what's
so difference with BioGeometry
that is--
it's not the same
as any one of those.
If you emit a certain
quality of energy
through geometrical
shapes, you are
playing the role of a
healer, emitting a equality.
And unless you managed to
sort of dosage it properly,
you're creating the
big problems that
happen with geometrical shapes.
Now, in Bio
Geometry, you don't--
you are not the healer.
You are the doorman, as I said.
You open and let the
balancing quality come out,
create the sacred
power spot, connect it
to higher dimensions,
let the higher
dimensions do the healing.
You are not the healer.
You have to remember,
you are the doorman.
>>SUE: This is the only true
healing that is I ever real.
>>IBRAHIM KARIM: Yes.
This is the only true healing.
Now, let us-- you spoke
about the human body.
It's very simple
to understand there
is a secret in the
shape of the human body.
If you want to
contain water, you
would have to make a
sort of a cup shape
or something like that.
If you have a flat shape,
you can't contain water.
So the container has
to be shaped in order
to house the content.
Now, what if the content is
on the subtle energy level,
it's not on a
physical level at all.
And we want to make
a container that
can house vitality,
emotional energy, life
forces, mental energy,
spiritual energy.
I mean, how do I make a physical
container that can actually
have all those things in it?
The only way to house that
is through entering with it
into resonance.
Resonance like music a string.
It builds an echo between them.
And there's an
exchange of information
that means you contain
it by resonating with it.
Now, how do I achieve resonance?
Well, music achieves
resonance with the universe.
But I design every aspect,
geometrically, in such a way
to enter into resonance
with each one of the levels.
So the body can
enter into resonance,
which each one of
the emotional levels,
multiple emotional
levels, it has
shapes that enter into resonance
with the mental levels.
And we've spent years studying
those shapes of the body.
And out of it, we've come out
with the individual shapes
that affect each level.
Now, that means that the body
is able, through its design,
to contain everything in there.
So in a way, the body is a
manifestation of divinity.
>>SUE: Wow.
That's where I was going to
go with what you were saying.
Is it that the body that emits
the energy or is the body
a byproduct of the energy--
>>IBRAHIM KARIM: It's both.
Because in resonance--
>>SUE: Yes.
>>IBRAHIM KARIM: --the
information goes both ways.
>>SUE: Yes.
>>IBRAHIM KARIM: So is
the body the container
or is the body
the manifestation?
It's the same.
>>SUE: And the answer is yes.
>>IBRAHIM KARIM: And
the answer is yes.
So taking us a
step further, that
means that all the secrets
of the human body, the energy
secrets of the human body must
be found in a statue even.
>>SUE: The shape.
>>IBRAHIM KARIM: Because we
speak about the part of shape,
not the part of my
emotions, mental.
If you look at me, then I
might be accessing it mentally,
emotionally, no, but--
>>SUE: It's about the
shape of subtle energy,
is what you're saying.
>>IBRAHIM KARIM: The shape--
the relationship
with subtle energy--
>>DOREYA KARIM:
There's actually a lot
of practices that deal
with balancing the body
through shaping the body.
>>SUE: Yes.
>>DOREYA KARIM: If
you think of yoga.
>>SUE: Yoga.
>>DOREYA KARIM: If
you think of tai chi.
If you think of even the
mudras, your hand positions.
>>SUE: Yes.
Positions, shapes.
>>DOREYA KARIM: Shaping
the body to change
the energy of the body.
So as you change the
shape of the container,
it changes the way that
the container resonates
or communicates with all of
these multidimensional levels
that we've been speaking about.
>>SUE: The entire cosmos.
>>DOREYA KARIM: Exactly.
>>IBRAHIM KARIM: Yes,
so we have something.
For example, instead of
looking at the mudras,
like that, that they
balance body energy,
in BioGeometry I can actually
manipulate, get a wooden hand,
and give it that shape.
It has to be a right
hand because of the--
and do this shape.
Now, it is emitting the second
possible energy very powerfully
from the finger.
So I can take it and do this.
And then it's emitting it
inside my body not horizontally.
It has to be like that.
But if you go to
all the ancient art,
you will find that
they use this.
And we think they are
using it symbolic of God.
But we have to understand
ancient civilizations' symbol
and practical science were one.
>>SUE: Same same.
Right, exactly.
So--
>>IBRAHIM KARIM: So
that is one shape.
So it's the body.
It's again--
>>SUE: It was referencing
God, but a different kind of--
>>DOREYA KARIM: And even if
you bring it and put it--
>>SUE: --definition of God.
>>DOREYA KARIM: --how
he was doing like this,
there's is also a
lot of practices
that talk about
bringing the tongue
to the roof of the mouth.
So when you actually
do this, and it
hits the roof of
the mouth, it will
help bounce the entire body.
>>IBRAHIM KARIM: So I can get a
wooden hand, shape it that way,
and use it for healing
or the body now.
>>DOREYA KARIM: You
can use your hand too.
>>IBRAHIM KARIM: You
see, the body here
has through its
configuration, it has centers.
Any geometrical configuration
must have centers.
And by definition, a center
is a vortex, is a wormhole.
So we said, how is my
container connected
to all the higher levels?
It is connected through
many, many levels
of wormholes that are centers,
resulting from the shape.
If the shape is perfect, it
creates so many wormholes
that connect to so many
different levels and so
many different functions.
Now, one of the
levels that we know
that wormholes--
for example, chakras
are such wormholes, acupuncture
points and such, wormholes.
In the joints we
have such wormholes.
So let's stick the
chakras, for example.
It's then you say,
can the chakras
have their origin
in just the shape?
Can they exist in
a wooden statue?
Yes.
So for example, if you take
a wooden statue like that,
if you put both hands up like
that to get the full shape,
you get emission from all
the chakras of the body.
Now, if I put the hands--
now, a simple way
is putting the palms
on the level of every chakra.
So if I put the arms like
that on the level of the heart
chakra here, it's not very
flexible, this friend of mine.
[LAUGHTER]
>>SUE: It needs more yoga.
>>IBRAHIM KARIM: Yeah.
It needs more yoga.
If I do that, then the
heart chakra emits.
If I do it a bit higher, like
this, the brow chakra emits.
>>DOREYA KARIM: You can
do this to your own body.
>>IBRAHIM KARIM: And I can
actually bring it down,
like this.
So by moving actually the
hands of a statue this level,
the hands on the level of a
chakra will cause it to emit.
But you can do that also
on your physical body.
For example, I'm a
lazy Egyptian person
who doesn't want to
go through meditation,
go through things to
activate his chakras.
So all I do is I just I want
to activate my heart chakra
or after lunch, my
digestive chakra here.
So all I have to do is just
put my palms on the level,
at the same level.
It will activate.
But I don't even do that
because moving my arms
is too strenuous for me.
I have a much easier thing.
[LAUGHTER]
I take a cup, any cup.
And I just put it on the chakra,
like that, for a few seconds.
Put them on the chakras because
chakras are energy vortices.
They're like fire.
If you put your pot on fire,
you will shape the fire
around the pot.
So I get a very simple
shape of a cup or anything
and just hold it in my hand
and put it on any chakra.
It'll open it straight
away because the it will
shape the chakra because it's
speaking language of shape.
>>SUE: So it creates
an opening, and--
>>IBRAHIM KARIM: It creates
and then the chakra is active.
>>SUE: --the fire comes around.
>>IBRAHIM KARIM:
What happens when you
activate chakras of a statue?
Through resonance, it would have
the same effect on the person
sitting in the room.
So you can have
healing of a statue.
Now, imagine the statue
with the proper proportions,
having all the chakras active,
placed on a sacred power spot,
like they had in Egypt,
all those megalith statues.
You could actually harmonize a
whole community on all levels
through the presence
of the statue.
>>DOREYA KARIM: And the temple
in Luxor is actually designed
so if you--
the book by Schwaller de
Lubicz, he spent years
studying the temple at Luxor.
And he actually
shows how, he talks
about the human
archetypal figure,
so if we say archetypal like
the blueprint upon which
we're based.
And he talks about
how as you move--
the temple design is based on
that same archetypal figure
that you find in all of the
ancient Egyptian statues.
And as you move through the
temple, as you walk through it,
it will activate or balance
different parts of the body.
>>SUE: Yes, I can feel
it when I walk through.
>>DOREYA KARIM: Yeah.
>>SUE: It's shaping the
consciousness as well.
>>DOREYA KARIM: Yeah, exactly.
>>SUE: Because each chakra
has a level of consciousness
that goes with it.
This awareness is being
shaped and refined.
And so you're sharing
that this shape,
that when we focus
upon the shape,
that everyone that is
focusing upon the shape
has the same harmonic happen.
They harmonize.
>>IBRAHIM KARIM: Yes,
resonance happens.
>>SUE: So the statues
of ancient Egypt,
the murtis of ancient India,
the deities that are in these
proportions, even
Michelangelo's "David,"
that is in particular proportion
that we all look to these
things or that ancient
civilizations would look
to the same statue would
harmonize the civilization
into the same--
>>IBRAHIM KARIM:
And the placement
is important on
sacred power spots
>>SUE: Mm-hmm.
>>IBRAHIM KARIM: So--
>>SUE: Magnifying.
>>IBRAHIM KARIM: Yeah.
>>DOREYA KARIM: I mean, I think
a good thing to just sort of--
to kind of bring
it all together,
because we're talking
about sacred power
spots for a second, and
we're talking about the body,
and we say the word centers.
So just to clarify,
so in BioGeometry--
and I'll show this briefly.
So when we talk about the sacred
power spot energy or the grid
lines, and you asked
how do we find it,
so we actually have-- so we
can-- there's different types.
You can use different
biofeedback devices
and see the effects on the body.
But very simply, we
actually have these tools
called dials, where
we've correlated angles
to different color qualities.
And so as you change the
angle, you can go into a space.
And as you change
the angle, you are
changing the color that your
body is in resonance with
and measuring.
So when we look at
a sacred power spot,
there's actually three color
combinations that you find.
That's part of the code or the
cornerstone of BioGeometry.
Now, because of
this effect, we call
those-- because of the
effect, where, like we said,
it's not polarized, it will
harmonize the whole energy
system.
We call it a centering quality.
But as an architect,
as soon as he
discovered this in
a location, or not
discovered in a
location, found the code
as to how to detect this
energy quality, of course
his next question was, well,
where do I find it in shapes?
And it wasn't a coincidence that
we called it a centering energy
quality.
Because if you look
at a circle, you
will actually find that
energy quality always
exists in the
center of a circle,
in the center of energy,
of any shape actually.
So when he was mentioning these
centers of the human body,
it was where we detect that same
energy of a sacred power spot.
You detect the energy
of a sacred power
spot in the shape of the body.
And the location of that
in the shape of the body
happens to correlate with
what we call chakras.
So your chakras are doing
the same thing for you
that the sacred power spots
are doing for our environment.
>>SUE: Holographic.
>>DOREYA KARIM: Yeah.
>>IBRAHIM KARIM:
Now, I'd like to say
one thing about the centers.
After all, we spoke
so much about centers.
But you know what?
Centers do not exist.
>>SUE: Right.
>>IBRAHIM KARIM: Why
they don't exist?
Because if you take a center,
and you enlarge it a bit,
it has a center.
You enlarge it a bit.
It has a center.
So centers cannot exist.
Even the wormhole,
the center of wormhole
is like a small circle
pointing to a center.
But the center is not in the
manifested wormhole anyhow.
So that we understand,
that centers,
any centers of any
geometrical shape,
is actually a wormhole, a
vortex that automatically
leads to higher dimension.
I don't want to go
deeper into that.
But every shape in
the physical dimension
is connected to a pattern on a
higher dimension that actually
governs the growth of
shapes in our physical world
through those wormholes.
>>SUE: And holographic
representation continuing to
compress itself here to
the physical dimensions.
>>IBRAHIM KARIM: Yes.
And if you use the proper
design of BioGeometry,
like nature, if you can imitate
nature, what you are doing,
you're reconnecting
your physical design
with the higher
dimensions of patterns
that you call archetypal,
the higher archetype.
You're connecting to them.
And once you're
connecting to them,
that means your physical
level is connected
to a higher spiritual
level, which
will harmonize it all the time,
which will have harmony there.
And connecting to
this level, that's
how ancient
civilizations persisted
for thousands of
years because they
were living on both levels.
>>SUE: Mm-hmm.
It was a spectrum.
>>IBRAHIM KARIM: Yeah.
>>SUE: Not two separate worlds.
>>IBRAHIM KARIM: But you
have to be actively living
on both levels.
And that's why today
I feel very sad when
I see lots of projects,
for example, where you move
a temple from one
place to the other,
or you move an obelisk
from one place to the other
and all that.
They don't understand
you're de-rooting it
from its life energy.
It's part of a vortex and now
it's out there with nothing
at all.
And people don't understand when
you do that, you are actually
disturbing all
other vortices, that
means all other chakras of
humans, plants, and animals
in the area when you move
a simple obelisk from one
place to another or some temple
from one place to another.
>>SUE: The conspirator I would
say, maybe they do understand.
And they're moving for
power purposes, et cetera.
But what we do know is that
we start to tug on the weave,
and everything gets
compromised because we're not
allowing that original harmony
to be in its true existence.
And this is humanity's
challenge, right,
is how do we progress without
becoming so obsessed with power
that we take ourselves out
of the game altogether.
So I know that you're doing
amazing work with this.
Can you speak to us about
environmental problems
that you've addressed
specifically with BioGeometry?
>>IBRAHIM KARIM: Well, we
have a big problem today.
In general, environmental
thinking is very simple.
You reduce the pollutants.
So you have a pollutant.
You reduce it.
And the problem is solved.
>>SUE: To do the trick.
>>IBRAHIM KARIM:
Yeah, it's solved.
Now, what if you
have a pollutant
that you are increasing
100 times daily,
and you either are not
aware that there's harm.
You do not want to reduce
it, or you are not aware
that it should be reduced.
I don't want to go into
conspiracy and say,
you do not want to
reduce it because
of interests or whatever.
But the fact is--
>>SUE: Either way
it's ignorance, right?
>>IBRAHIM KARIM: Either
way it's ignorance.
Now, this new pollutant,
we are actually
amplifying it every day.
So it goes against all the
old way of looking at it.
We cannot deal with our existing
paradigm of reducing pollutants
because now we're at the time
of amplifying pollutants,
of this pollutant.
And that's
electromagnetic radiation
because the age of information
is built around it.
Now, this is a huge problem.
What will happen?
First of all, we
close our eyes when
it comes to global
warming about anything
that moves, any wave that moves,
like electromagnetic radiation
would cause heat.
So filling the atmosphere
with electromagnetic radiation
will contribute
to global warming,
whether you like it or not.
But we say fossil
fuels, things like that,
maybe for political reasons.
And we close our ears when
it comes to global warming
of electromagnetic radiation.
Now, there's another aspect
of electromagnetic radiation
that's very, very dangerous.
And I see that when studying
the ancient pyramids.
It gives us a lesson there.
There's an energy
quality in the pyramids
that dehydrates things.
And that's why things
don't rot in there.
That's why it's good
for mummification.
Now, the same energy
quality exists
in electromagnetic radiation.
So I have found that
electromagnetic radiation
dehydrates life systems.
Dehydrates means what?
It means the life force.
So electromagnetic radiation
is reducing the life force
out of life systems
Now, when this is
the case, there'll
come a day when it will
increase to such a high level
that all immune
systems will collapse.
So we have a hidden time bomb
in the age of information
that might end our
civilization because
of our ignorance or our greed.
Now, there is no way of trying
to go against civilization,
against modern technology.
But what we are
seeing, remember,
instead of going
against the Earth,
why don't we go with the Earth
and use the beneficent Earth
energies, like Earth energy
passports and all that?
Why don't we bring the
sacred energy quality
into electromagnetic
radiation so we can produce,
actually we can make the
whole atmosphere a big healing
cocoon instead of a
big killing cocoon?
We should be able
to have the wisdom
to do that because
we do not know
that we are the environment.
We are not living
in the environment.
No, we are the environment.
So by destroying the environment
with all this electricity
everywhere, we're destroying
ourselves without knowing it.
>>SUE: Mm.
>>IBRAHIM KARIM: To tell
you, it's not just--
I'm not being poetic by
saying you are the environment
or I'm the environment.
No.
When I wake up in the morning,
I cannot open my mouth and feed
off the sun's energy.
And I won't have to go to the
restaurant and have to eat it.
It would be very, very
economic to do that.
But I can't do that because
unfortunately I don't
have an organ that can do that.
If I had an organ that would
capture the sun's energy,
transform it into my living
energy, I could do that.
But I'm missing an organ.
But to be alive.
I have to find my organ.
My organ is outside my body.
It's in the plants.
So the plants takes that energy,
transform to chemical energy,
gives it back to me,
and I can take it.
So the plant is an
external human organ.
>>SUE: It's extension, yes.
>>IBRAHIM KARIM: It's
an extension to me.
>>SUE: It's an
extension of the system.
>>IBRAHIM KARIM: So there is no
way, whether we like it or not,
to separate myself
from the environment
because one of my
organs is out there.
So killing that organ
of yours out there
is no different from
going and killing one
of the organs inside your body.
We have to reach
this understanding.
>>SUE: Yes.
Yes, we are not separate.
And the environment
is a reflection
of humanity's consciousness,
what we're allowing.
>>DOREYA KARIM: And even just
diagnosing the subtle energy
of the body, if you're facing
west, or you're facing east,
and we look at your
subtle energy system,
there will be differences.
And that's because your body's
reacting to the environment.
>>SUE: Yes.
In ancient Indian,
[INAUDIBLE] architecture
is of this same understanding
and a beautiful demonstration.
>>IBRAHIM KARIM: We have
many PhD research theses.
And one of the things we
saw that we can actually
have BioGeometrical shapes
restore the chemical level
in the brain.
So people who have depression,
the serotonin was measured.
It goes down very much.
Now, using BioGeometry,
we raise the serotonin
to a higher level than the
best drug on the market.
And things like that--
>>DOREYA KARIM: That was the--
>>IBRAHIM KARIM: Yeah,
using geometrical shapes,
we managed to change
the whole awareness.
>>DOREYA KARIM: That's going
back to where we started.
That's the thesis
I was referring
to when I said that the medical
department called and said
stop sending us your students.
>>IBRAHIM KARIM:
Yes, stop sending us
because I wanted to know
that, what's happening.
And so imagine seeing a child
with some brain problem going
into a geometrical
shape or a classroom.
And all of a sudden, his
awareness changes and becomes
like ours, a normal
awareness, at least
for a very short period
during he's in the shape.
The mothers were crying.
We were emotionally so
touched, especially when
the child had convulsions
before he came in or hyper,
things like that.
They completely
changed in that shape.
>>SUE: Fascinating.
This has been amazing,
fascinating information.
And please don't stop.
Please continue your research
and keep bringing us models
and send us your students, if
the medical profession doesn't
want to hear them.
>>IBRAHIM KARIM: The good
thing about BioGeometry
is I have my children
working with me.
So I have my eldest son,
Sayid, you saw working with me.
In his work, he is teaching
people all around the world,
certifying them to go and
sort of work on harmonizing
and protecting homes.
Then I have my other
daughter, Lila,
who is actually
supervising the design
fields of all design in Egypt.
And then Doreya is
actually working with me
in developing new
research and all that.
So I feel I'm
leaving BioGeometry
into trustworthy hands.
And my wife now manages--
>>DOREYA KARIM: It helps.
>>IBRAHIM KARIM: Yeah.
My wife manages the
whole thing with.
Them so leaving everything
to your family--
we have instructors
all around the world.
But the family is the hub.
>>DOREYA KARIM: And he's
not leaving anything.
>>SUE: You're not
leaving any time soon.
>>DOREYA KARIM: Yeah, exactly.
So there's no leaving--
>>SUE: You're coming
back on the show.
>>DOREYA KARIM: There's
no leaving happening.
>>SUE: Tell me where can
people find more information
about BioGeometry?
How can they find you?
>>DOREYA KARIM: Well,
he has two books,
"Back to a Future For Mankind"
and "BioGeometry Signatures."
They're both on Amazon.
Those are a wonderful
place to start.
If you're interested
more in what
we talked about, the
subtle energy spots,
how do we find them, the
electromagnetic radiation,
I recommend "Back
to the Future."
And if you're interested more
in actually just going straight
to shapes that help the body,
I recommend "BioGeometry
Signatures" and just
check out the website,
biogeometry.com or dot ca.
>>SUE: biogeomtry.com.
>>DOREYA KARIM: Yeah.
>>SUE: Yeah.
Thank you so much.
You've brought so much
stimulating conversation,
bridging the ancient and the now
and the necessary for healing,
for wholeness, for health,
vitality, and a sense of self
and fulfillment in this
life, which is what we're all
supposed to be living.
And so thank you for the
work you've been doing.
>>DOREYA KARIM: Thank
you for having us.
>>IBRAHIM KARIM:
Thank you, Dr. Sue,
because we feel with you we
are in the same boat somehow.
>>SUE: Yes.
It's very resonant, yes.
BioGeometry may become one of
the most important sciences
for the future of
wellness on this planet.
Dr. Karim and
Doreya are pioneers
in addressing the deep
connection between our bodies
and the environment.
For more information
on their work,
of m please visit
biogeometry.ca.
I'm Dr. Sue Morter.
And thank you for
watching "Healing Matrix."